README.md, before:

# Hi! I'm Josh.
### And I'm the Director of Engineering at [StackCommerce](https://stackcommerce.com).

It's really hard to work for/with somebody you can't read. This document exists to help you read *me*. (See what I did there?) I hope it is helpful to you. If it is not, or if you feel I am misstating something here, let me know. Or, better yet, clone this repo, create a branch, and give me a PR. This is a work in progress, _as am I._

## TL;DR:
* I love the creative process, problem solving, and technology, and it is my passion to help engineers grow and thrive however I can.
* I am a big picture guy who needs the _why_ before the _what_ and the _how_.
* I am logical and action oriented. I prefer to think (which I usually do out loud) before making decisions, but then I want to act quickly.
* I am a husband/dad/foster dad with many creative hobbies. I recharge my batteries by finding solitude, reading, writing, making things, and (ironically for an introvert) performing.

## My work vision
_Here's what I'm focused on, the reasons I do the things I do._

1. It is my job and my privilege to work everyday toward building a world-class engineering team. I will work to help our team of engineers improve in not only their tech skills, but also in planning, estimating, and communicating. Better engineers raise the level of the entire team, and in turn, the company and the product.
2. I believe the best ideas for how to improve a thing often come from the people who are in the weeds building that thing. Got an idea? I want to hear it.
3. The best engineers (and managers and designers and content writers and product managers, etc.) are those who care deeply about the product and do not wait for someone to ask them to make it better. If you see something we need to improve, I want to empower you to make it happen.
4. Something magical happens when a person's passions and skills align with company needs. So I will ask my team questions like "What would you work on if nobody was telling you what to do?" and I will ask execs and product managers questions like "What project would you start if you had a engineers to build it?" If there's alignment and it makes sense, I will work hard to connect the right people to the project.

## What I don't do
_I do a lot of things, but not everything. I will not..._
1. **Tell you how to do your job.** You were hired to be an expert, and you have my trust. I will give you feedback, but I will not micromanage.
2. **Write (much) code.** I might occasionally jump in to support a project or squash a bug, but my job is to empower engineers to write great code, not to write great code myself.

## How I communicate
_I have quirks. Here they are._

1. **I will do my best to communicate with you in a way that sets you up for success.** If you need me to be more direct, I will do so. If you need me to give you more encouragement, I am happy to oblige. If something isn't feeling right about the way I am working/communicating with you, let me know, and I will adjust.
2. **I will not lie.** There may be times that I am required to withhold information. That's the nature of the job. But I will not be dishonest with you.
3. **I do not speak between the lines.** Please do not read between them. I will be direct when giving feedback. If you think you are hearing something implied that I am not explicitly saying, you are always welcome to ask.
4. **I despise passive aggression.** I will not be passive agressive with you. Ever. And I ask the same in return. If you have a beef with me or another coworker, _that is 100% okay._ Let's talk it out. If the problem is with me, I will thank you for your feedback and work to resolve the issue with you and be better. That is my promise. If the problem is with someone else, I will give you direction/advice on how to resolve it, and I will even facilitate a discussion if that would be helpful. But you should know that I will also ask if you have spoken to that person directly, and if you have not, I will encourage you to do so. Direct peer feedback is incredibly valuable, and you should not withhold it.
5. **I need the _why_ before I can understand the details.** If you ask me to help you think through some code (and you should!), I will first need to understand what the project is supposed to accomplish before I will be capable of thinking about syntax, patterns, or strategy. Many people start with _what_, then go to _how_, and end up at _why_. That's great! My brain just works the other way around.
6. **I tend to think out loud.** This means that sometimes I am just throwing ideas at the wall rather than giving orders. It means that I may ramble. I am working to get better at (A) stating clearly whether I am dreaming or giving direction, (B) staying focused on the topic at hand, and (C) speaking concisely. If you feel I am getting off track (especially in a 1:1), you have my permission to (please) interrupt me. I value correction, and I will thank you for it.
7. **When I get excited, I can sometimes overwhelm a conversation.** I have come a long way, but in the past I have been known to, sometimes, get excited and take over a conversation when it would be better to listen. Know that, if I do this, it comes from my enthusiasm and not some malignant place. But it is also not acceptable. So if I ever prevent you from saying what you have to say, please raise a hand and/or interrupt me and say "Josh, you're doing that thing again." I want to be better, and I value your help.


## My personality
_I am a sucker for personality tests, and I think personality types are fascinating. Here's more than you could possibly want to know about mine._

1. The Sorting Hat sorted me into [Gryffindor](https://www.pottermore.com/collection/all-about-gryffindor).
2. My top five strengths according to Strengths Finder are: [Intellection](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/691/intellection.aspx), [Ideation](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/679/ideation.aspx), [Strategic](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/718/strategic.aspx), [Connectedness](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/649/connectedness.aspx), [Maximizer](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/697/maximizer.aspx).
3. My Myers-Briggs type is [INTP-A](https://www.16personalities.com/intp-personality) (Individual traits: Introverted – 51%, Intuitive – 80%, Thinking – 58%, Prospecting – 69%, Assertive – 71%).
4. My Enneagram type is a [4 with a 3 wing](https://www.crystalknows.com/enneagram/type-4-wing-3).
5. I am a weird mix of introvert and extravert. I recharge in solitude, and I prefer small, intimate gatherings of close family and friends to social events, large family gatherings, meetups, and parties. But I am also totally comfortable being on stage, whether that's public speaking or making music.

## I have a life beyond work
_And it's a little crazy._


1. My wife and I have been married for eighteen years, and we're finally beginning to figure each other out.
2. We have two biological daughters and two foster daughters. The youngest is one year old, the oldest is fourteen. If I seem tired, this is why.
3. I don't play video games, and I only watch a little television. I am caught up on The Mandalorian and WandaVision, though, so feel free to discuss your Star Wars and Marvel universe theories with me.
4. Reading is my TV, and I read a lot. You are welcome to connect with me on [Goodreads](http://goodreads.com/JoshTellsAStory) if you have an account there.
5. Writing is my passion. Mostly, I write fiction (I wrote [this novel](http://bit.ly/sarah-ann-lewis) and contribute to [this podcast](http://TelltalesWriting.com)), but I also blog about creativity, parenting, and engineering from time to time. You can find my articles [here](https://medium.com/@JoshTellsAStory).
6. I like to make music (I sing and play several instruments; guitar and ukulele are my go-tos), dabble in photography, and cook, though I don't get to do any of those as often as I would like these days.
---
### Got a question I didn't answer here? Just ask. I'm on StackCommerce's Slack ([@josh.carroll](https://stackcommerce.slack.com/messages/@josh.carroll)) and on Twitter ([@JoshTellsAStory](https://twitter.com/JoshTellsAStory)).

Commit message:

A few tweaks around my communication style and preferences

README.md, after:

# Hi! I'm Josh.
### And I'm the Director of Engineering at [StackCommerce](https://stackcommerce.com).

It's really hard to work for/with somebody you can't read. This document exists to help you read *me*. (See what I did there?) I hope it is helpful to you. If it is not, or if you feel I am misstating something here, let me know. Or, better yet, clone this repo, create a branch, and give me a PR. This is a work in progress, _as am I._

## TL;DR:
* I love the creative process, problem solving, and technology, and it is my passion to help engineers grow and thrive however I can.
* I believe in honest, direct feedback. I will give it, and I want to receive it.
* I am a big picture guy who needs the _why_ before the _what_ and the _how_.
* I am logical and action oriented. I prefer to think (which I usually do out loud) before making decisions, but then I want to act quickly.
* I am a husband/dad/foster dad with many creative hobbies. I recharge my batteries by finding solitude, reading, writing, making things, and (ironically for an introvert) performing.

## My work vision
_Here's what I'm focused on, the reasons I do the things I do._

1. It is my job and my privilege to work everyday toward building a world-class engineering team. I will work to help our team of engineers improve in not only their tech skills, but also in planning, estimating, and communicating. Better engineers raise the level of the entire team, and in turn, the company and the product.
2. I believe in straightforward, honest communication. If you are unclear about something, ask. If something doesn't feel right, speak up. It is not only okay to "say the thing," it is your job and mine to be as clear as possible about what is and is not working, what feels good and what does not. This is how we level up the team and the company.
3. I believe the best ideas for how to improve a thing often come from the people who are in the weeds building that thing. Got an idea? I want to hear it.
4. The best engineers (and managers and designers and content writers and product managers, etc.) are those who care deeply about the product and do not wait for someone to ask them to make it better. If you see something we need to improve, I want to empower you to make it happen.
5. Something magical happens when a person's passions and skills align with company needs. So I will ask my team questions like "What would you work on if nobody was telling you what to do?" and I will ask execs and product managers questions like "What project would you start if you had a engineers to build it?" If there's alignment and it makes sense, I will work hard to connect the right people to the project.

## What I don't do
_I do a lot of things, but not everything. I will not..._
1. **Talk around what I need to say.** I will be very clear with you, and I expect you to be clear with me as well. If it feels like I am being vague, say so. We are all adults, and I expect us to communicate proactively and with maturity.
2. **Tell you how to do your job.** You were hired to be an expert, and you have my trust. I will give you feedback, but I will not micromanage.
3. **Write (much) code.** I might occasionally jump in to support a project or squash a bug, but my job is to empower engineers to write great code, not to write great code myself.

## How I communicate
_I have quirks. Here they are._

1. **I will do my best to communicate with you in a way that sets you up for success.** If you need me to be more direct, I will do so. If you need me to give you more encouragement, I am happy to oblige. If something isn't feeling right about the way I am working/communicating with you, let me know, and I will adjust.
2. **I will not lie.** There may be times that I am required to withhold information. That's the nature of the job. But I will not be dishonest with you.
3. **I do not speak between the lines.** Please do not read between them. I will be direct when giving feedback. If you think you are hearing something implied that I am not explicitly saying, you are always welcome to ask.
4. **I despise passive aggression.** I will not be passive agressive with you. Ever. And I ask the same in return. If you have a beef with me or another coworker, _that is 100% okay._ Let's talk it out. If the problem is with me, I will thank you for your feedback and work to resolve the issue with you and be better. That is my promise. If the problem is with someone else, I will give you direction/advice on how to resolve it, and I will even facilitate a discussion if that would be helpful. But you should know that I will also ask if you have spoken to that person directly, and if you have not, I will encourage you to do so. Direct peer feedback is incredibly valuable, and you should not withhold it.
5. **I need the _why_ before I can understand the details.** If you ask me to help you think through some code (and you should!), I will first need to understand what the project is supposed to accomplish before I will be capable of thinking about syntax, patterns, or strategy. Many people start with _what_, then go to _how_, and end up at _why_. That's great! My brain just works the other way around.
6. **I tend to think out loud.** This means that sometimes I am just throwing ideas at the wall rather than giving orders. It means that I may ramble. I am working to get better at (A) stating clearly whether I am dreaming or giving direction, (B) staying focused on the topic at hand, and (C) speaking concisely. If you feel I am getting off track (especially in a 1:1), you have my permission to (please) interrupt me. I value correction, and I will thank you for it.
7. **When I get excited, I can sometimes overwhelm a conversation.** I have come a long way, but in the past I have been known to, sometimes, get excited and take over a conversation when it would be better to listen. Know that, if I do this, it comes from my enthusiasm and not some malignant place. But it is also not acceptable. So if I ever prevent you from saying what you have to say, please raise a hand and/or interrupt me and say "Josh, you're doing that thing again." I want to be better, and I value your help.


## My personality
_I am a sucker for personality tests, and I think personality types are fascinating. Here's more than you could possibly want to know about mine._

1. The Sorting Hat sorted me into [Gryffindor](https://www.pottermore.com/collection/all-about-gryffindor).
2. My top five strengths according to Strengths Finder are: [Intellection](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/691/intellection.aspx), [Ideation](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/679/ideation.aspx), [Strategic](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/718/strategic.aspx), [Connectedness](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/649/connectedness.aspx), [Maximizer](http://www.gallup.com/businessjournal/697/maximizer.aspx).
3. My Myers-Briggs type is [INTP-A](https://www.16personalities.com/intp-personality) (Individual traits: Introverted – 51%, Intuitive – 80%, Thinking – 58%, Prospecting – 69%, Assertive – 71%).
4. My Enneagram type is a [4 with a 3 wing](https://www.crystalknows.com/enneagram/type-4-wing-3).
5. I am a weird mix of introvert and extravert. I recharge in solitude, and I prefer small, intimate gatherings of close family and friends to social events, large family gatherings, meetups, and parties. But I am also totally comfortable being on stage, whether that's public speaking or making music.

## I have a life beyond work
_And it's a little crazy._


1. My wife and I have been married for eighteen years, and we're finally beginning to figure each other out.
2. We have two biological daughters and two foster daughters. The youngest is one year old, the oldest is fourteen. If I seem tired, this is why.
3. I don't play video games, and I only watch a little television. I am caught up on The Mandalorian and WandaVision, though, so feel free to discuss your Star Wars and Marvel universe theories with me.
4. Reading is my TV, and I read a lot. You are welcome to connect with me on [Goodreads](http://goodreads.com/JoshTellsAStory) if you have an account there.
5. Writing is my passion. Mostly, I write fiction (I wrote [this novel](http://bit.ly/sarah-ann-lewis) and contribute to [this podcast](http://TelltalesWriting.com)), but I also blog about creativity, parenting, and engineering from time to time. You can find my articles [here](https://medium.com/@JoshTellsAStory).
6. I like to make music (I sing and play several instruments; guitar and ukulele are my go-tos), dabble in photography, and cook, though I don't get to do any of those as often as I would like these days.
---
### Got a question I didn't answer here? Just ask. I'm on StackCommerce's Slack ([@josh.carroll](https://stackcommerce.slack.com/messages/@josh.carroll)) and on Twitter ([@JoshTellsAStory](https://twitter.com/JoshTellsAStory)).
